# Concept
It is impossible to know for certain that someone is who they say they are. There is a certain likelihood based on identification criteria on which we can assume a person’s identity. These identification criteria can be official documents, a historical record, biometrics, secrets a person knows and a web of trust identifying the person, to name a few. None of the methods to check on these criteria is fool proof. This poses a security problem in cases where a person’s identity is the legitimizes performing tasks.

In blockchain identity is managed using private and public key pairs. The private key is in that sense the avatar of a person’s identity. This is from the perspective of the blockchain the most secure method of identification. However good handling of the private key is crucial. It needs to be stored in a safe location, preferably locally on a device fully in control of the owner. This makes it a challenge to use a private key from multiple devices, furthermore losing the private key means losing access to identity controlled data. 

Currently, proposed solutions for the private key challenge are the use of a web of trust (uport) or having multiple private keys linked to your persona. We propose a more generic approach to linking a person’s identity to a private key. The first observation we would like to make is that different identification methods differ in the level  of certainty they provide about a person’s identity. So a persona identified with a password is less strong, than a persona identified with a fingerprint and a persona identified with both a fingerprint and a password is stronger than both methods separate. Based on this principle we have build an identity/ access management system in a smart contract blockchain.

The idea is that a person solves a number of challenges from a device that has generated a private key. Each challenge solved increases the likelihood that the private key generated represents the person. Based on the authority acquired by the private key, the key may/  may not execute tasks. 

In this manner private keys can be stored on devices making their storage as secure as possible. Security of authentication may not be as strong as possible, but the great advantage is that the usability of private public key pairs increases and becomes attractive for a larger public. Further inventions in handling private keys may improve the authentication mechanisms proposed by us and can easily build upon the ideas presented here.

We believe that our invention will inevitably lead to a transparent internet and world peace.

